www/cookbook/staples/3Body.md, before:

---
title: 3-Body Problem
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Trisolarians, Trishmolarians

**fenn**ecs's relation features allow us you to simulate the 3-Body Problem with ease.

::: code-group

```csharp [Components]
// This is both our relation component ("Attractor")
// as well as the "Body" component itself.
// We create it as a class so the same backing object
// is used for both the plain and relation components.
private class Body
{
    public Vector3 position;
    public float mass { init; get; }
}

// Velocity of our Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Velocity : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}

// Cumulative Forces acting on Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component.
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Force : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}

// Position of our Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component.
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Position : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}
```

```csharp [System Setup]
var world = new World();
const int bodyCount = 3;

// Determine starting positions
var p1 = new Vector3(-10, -4, 0);
var p2 = new Vector3(0, 12, 0);
var p3 = new Vector3(7, 0, 4);

// Create our Body Components
// These will serve both as "Attractor" relations
// as well as the "Bodies" themselves
var body1 = new Body{position = p1, mass = 2.0f};
var body2 = new Body{position = p2, mass = 1.5f};
var body3 = new Body{position = p3, mass = 3.5f};

// Set up our three suns
var sun1 = world.Spawn();
sun1.Add<Force>();
sun1.Add(new Position {Value = body1.position});
sun1.Add<Velocity>();

var sun2 = world.Spawn();
sun2.Add<Force>();
sun2.Add(new Position {Value = body2.position});
sun2.Add<Velocity>();

var sun3 = world.Spawn();
sun3.Add<Force>();
sun3.Add(new Position {Value = body3.position});
sun3.Add<Velocity>();

// By adding all attractor relations to all bodies,
// they all end up in the same Archetype
// (not strictly necessary, but limits fragmentation)
sun1.Add(body1);
sun1.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun1.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun1.AddRelation(sun3, body3);

sun2.Add(body2);
sun2.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun2.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun2.AddRelation(sun3, body3);

sun3.Add(body3);
sun3.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun3.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun3.AddRelation(sun3, body3);
```

```csharp [Queries]
// Used to accumulate all forces acting on a body (from the other bodies)
var accumulator = world
    .Query<Force, Position, Body>(Match.Plain, Match.Plain, Match.Entity)
    .Compile();

// Used to calculate the the forces into the velocities and positions
var integrator = world
    .Query<Force, Velocity, Position>()
    .Compile();

// Used to copy the Position into the Body components of the same object
// (Match.plain = only the plain, non-relation components)
var consolidator = world
    .Query<Position, Body>(Match.Plain, Match.Plain)
    .Compile();        
```

```csharp [Simulation Loop]        
// Main "Loop", we pretend we run at 100 fps (dt = 0.01)

// Clear all forces
accumulator.Blit(new Force { Value = Vector3.Zero });

// Accumulate all forces through 1 Attractor stream:
// This means Query.For will enumerate each sun 3 times
// (once for each attractor relation we set up on it)
accumulator.For(static 
    (ref Force force, ref Position position, ref Body attractor) =>
    {
        var distanceSquared = Vector3.DistanceSquared(attractor.position, position.Value);
        if (distanceSquared < float.Epsilon) return; // Skip ourselves (anything that's too close)
        
        var direction = Vector3.Normalize(attractor.position - position.Value);
        force.Value += direction * attractor.mass / distanceSquared;
    });

// Integrate forces, velocities, and positions
integrator.For(static 
    (ref Force force, ref Velocity velocity, ref Position position, float dt) =>
    {
        velocity.Value += dt * forces.Value;
        position.Value += dt * velocity.Value;
    }, 0.01f);


// Copy the Position back to the Body components of the same object
// (the plain and relation components are backed by the same instances of Body!)
consolidator.For(static
    (ref Position position, ref Body body) =>
    {
        iterations3++;
        body.position = position.Value;
    });
```
:::

Commit message:

Accidentalyl committed a piece of experimental code.

www/cookbook/staples/3Body.md, after:

---
title: 3-Body Problem
outline: [2, 3]
---

# 3-Body Problem

> *Trisolarians, Trishmolarians ...* 

`1:N` and `N:M` relations where Entities continuously influence each other in complex ways have always been a challenge in Entity Component Systems. Usually, these require expensive additional or reverse lookups that do not scale well with the rest of the ECS design.

This includes typical gameplay scenarios such as many troops following a few leaders, flocking, gravitational simulations, threat assessments, and more.

**fenn**ecs's relation features allow us you to model such relations with ease - reaping the full benefits of ECS iteration. In this recipe, we'll show you how to simulate a simple 3-Body stellar system, where each body exerts a gravitational pull on all others.

::: details :neofox_hyper: SEE ALSO: [N-BODY DEMO](NBody.md)
The setup for the 3-Body Problem is hard-coded to fully illustrate its three-by-three relationship.

If you're a generalization nerd, [this demo](NBody.md) is a concrete example that uses the <u>same simulation loop</u>, but focuses on a more generic setup step (with batched setup of Entities and Relations).

It demonstrates how to procedurally set up and simulate not only an arbitrary number of bodies, but also coexisting simulations without changing any of the simulation code.
:::

::: code-group

```csharp [Components]
// This is both our relation component ("Attractor")
// as well as the "Body" component itself.
// We create it as a class so the same backing object
// is used for both the plain and relation components.
private class Body
{
    public Vector3 position;
    public float mass { init; get; }
}

// Velocity of our Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Velocity : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}

// Cumulative Forces acting on Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component.
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Force : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}

// Position of our Bodies
// A simple Vector3 component.
// Fox typing is optional, as always
private struct Position : Fox<Vector3>
{
    public Vector3 Value { get; set; }
}
```

```csharp [System Setup]
var world = new World();
const int bodyCount = 3;

// Determine starting positions
var p1 = new Vector3(-10, -4, 0);
var p2 = new Vector3(0, 12, 0);
var p3 = new Vector3(7, 0, 4);

// Create our Body Components
// These will serve both as "Attractor" relations
// as well as the "Bodies" themselves
var body1 = new Body{position = p1, mass = 2.0f};
var body2 = new Body{position = p2, mass = 1.5f};
var body3 = new Body{position = p3, mass = 3.5f};

// Set up our three suns
var sun1 = world.Spawn();
sun1.Add<Force>();
sun1.Add(new Position {Value = body1.position});
sun1.Add<Velocity>();

var sun2 = world.Spawn();
sun2.Add<Force>();
sun2.Add(new Position {Value = body2.position});
sun2.Add<Velocity>();

var sun3 = world.Spawn();
sun3.Add<Force>();
sun3.Add(new Position {Value = body3.position});
sun3.Add<Velocity>();

// By adding all attractor relations to all bodies,
// they all end up in the same Archetype
// (not strictly necessary, but limits fragmentation)
sun1.Add(body1);
sun1.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun1.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun1.AddRelation(sun3, body3);

sun2.Add(body2);
sun2.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun2.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun2.AddRelation(sun3, body3);

sun3.Add(body3);
sun3.AddRelation(sun1, body1);
sun3.AddRelation(sun2, body2);
sun3.AddRelation(sun3, body3);
```

```csharp [Queries]
// Used to accumulate all forces acting on a body (from the other bodies)
var accumulator = world
    .Query<Force, Position, Body>(Match.Plain, Match.Plain, Match.Entity)
    .Compile();

// Used to calculate the the forces into the velocities and positions
var integrator = world
    .Query<Force, Velocity, Position>()
    .Compile();

// Used to copy the Position into the Body components of the same object
// (Match.plain = only the plain, non-relation components)
var consolidator = world
    .Query<Position, Body>(Match.Plain, Match.Plain)
    .Compile();        
```

```csharp [Simulation Loop]        
// Main "Loop", we pretend we run at 100 fps (dt = 0.01)

// Clear all forces
accumulator.Blit(new Force { Value = Vector3.Zero });

// Accumulate all forces through 1 Attractor stream:
// This means Query.For will enumerate each sun 3 times
// (once for each attractor relation we set up on it)
accumulator.For(static 
    (ref Force force, ref Position position, ref Body attractor) =>
    {
        var distanceSquared = Vector3.DistanceSquared(attractor.position, position.Value);
        if (distanceSquared < float.Epsilon) return; // Skip ourselves (anything that's too close)
        
        var direction = Vector3.Normalize(attractor.position - position.Value);
        force.Value += direction * attractor.mass / distanceSquared;
    });

// Integrate forces, velocities, and positions
integrator.For(static 
    (ref Force force, ref Velocity velocity, ref Position position, float dt) =>
    {
        velocity.Value += dt * forces.Value;
        position.Value += dt * velocity.Value;
    }, 0.01f);


// Copy the Position back to the Body components of the same object
// (the plain and relation components are backed by the same instances of Body!)
consolidator.For(static
    (ref Position position, ref Body body) =>
    {
        iterations3++;
        body.position = position.Value;
    });
```
:::


::: warning :neofox_science: DON'T MISTAKE SCIENCE FOR MAGIC!
Even though **fenn**ecs gives tangible speed benefits when iterating over Entities due to cache coherent data layout and loop structure, an `N:N` relation still implies runtime complexity `o(n²)` - and thus, an elegant real-time approximation to simulate the *1-Million-Body-Problem* remains elusive.

Also, (if it even has to be said), the above code is a simple simulation and not even remotely scientifically accurate. The "Problem" in "3-Body-Problem" means that for these simulations, small changes in initial conditions quickly lead to vastly different and unpredictable outcomes.
:::
