www/docs/Queries/SIMD.md, before:

---
title: SIMD
order: 4
content: SIMD Query Interface
---

# SIMD Query Interface
Queries expose a set of SIMD operations that allow you to perform bulk operations on the matched entities.

![fennec, translucent and glowy blue](https://fennecs.tech/img/fennec-vectorized-256.png)
*"Eight Entities at the same time. f'ing A!"*

They perform simple writes and arithmetic operations at blazing speeds, and are a great complement to your [Runners](Query.For.md) for more complex logic.

The operations make use of `System.Intrinsics`, especailly the AVX2, SSE2 and ARM AdvSIMD vector instructions where available. 


::: tip QUAD :neofox_glasses: WORD :neofox_glasses: QUAD :neofox_glasses: NERD :neofox_glasses: HACK
Psst... you can implement your own arbitrary SIMD operations as seen in the  [Query.Raw Example](Query.Raw.md#examples).  
And since we like to live fast and foxy, try the new implicit extension types in C# 13 for that!
:::


## `Query<C>.Blit`
The most prominent SIMD operation is `Blit`, which writes the component value to all entities in the Query. `C` must be one of the Query's [Stream Types](index.md#stream-types). It requires no additional setup and is always safe.

```csharp
var myQuery = new Query<Velocity, Position>().Compile();

myQuery.Blit(default(Position));
myQuery.Blit(new Velocity(c, 0, 0));
```

`Blit` is incapable of adding new Components, and is also unable to modify Relation Targets. Use the [CRUD](CRUD.md) `Add...` functions for that, which internally uses Blit to write the new components.

::: warning :neofox_confused: INCONSISTENCY or (IN)CONVENIENCE?
Unlike the other SIMD operations, the `Blit` methods are declared in each `Query<>` class, where the others are in the `Query.SIMD` sub-interface. This may change in the future.
:::

::: details :neofox_magnify: BEHIND THE SCENES
`Blit` uses `Span<T>.Fill` to write the data. This is a fast and safe operation that is optimized by the .NET runtime and JIT compiler.

Fast Vectorization techniques are used to write Component Types that are [Blittable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) (e.g. `struct` with only primitive fields), but practically all Reference types are also supported. (they blit rapidly, but not as fast as the Blittables).
:::

------
## Limitations
::: danger 🔏 ALIASING
SIMD Operations can lead to aliasing, where multiple process write the same memory location. 

This can happen with:
- nested query runs
- jobs

For simplicity's sake, if a world is not in `WorldMode.Immediate`, i.e. when any `WorldLock` is active, SIMD operations will throw before executing.

(this restriction will be lifted change soon!)

But because Jobs execute in non-deterministic order, you will not be able to Blit during a Job/from inside a job for the foreseeable time. But fret not - future versions of fennecs will have an aliasing system to allow for safe writes (especially to other queries/archetypes!)
:::

## Future SIMD Operations
::: details MORE COMING SOON - (click to preview)

### Index (writes a running, contiguous index to the component)

### MatrixMul

### MulMatrix

### VectorAdd, VectorDot, VectorCross, VectorScale, VectorOuter, VectorNormalize

### Count

### `integer` Arithmetic (AddI, SubtractI, MultiplyI, DivideI, ShiftLeftI, ShiftRightI, ModuloI)
### `long` Arithmetic (AddL, SubtractL, MultiplyL, DivideL, ShiftLeftL, ShiftRightL, ModuloL)
### `float` Arithmetic (AddF, SubtractF, MultiplyF, DivideF)
### `double` Arithmetic (AddD, SubtractD, MultiplyD, DivideD)

Commit message:

Some documentation work on new stream system

www/docs/Queries/SIMD.md, after:

---
title: SIMD
order: 4
content: SIMD Query Interface
---

# SIMD Query Interface
Queries expose a set of SIMD operations that allow you to perform bulk operations on the matched entities.

![fennec, translucent and glowy blue](https://fennecs.tech/img/fennec-vectorized-256.png)
*"Eight Entities at the same time. f'ing A!"*

They perform simple writes and arithmetic operations at blazing speeds, and are a great complement to your [Runners](Stream.For.md) for more complex logic.

The operations make use of `System.Intrinsics`, especailly the AVX2, SSE2 and ARM AdvSIMD vector instructions where available. 


::: tip QUAD :neofox_glasses: WORD :neofox_glasses: QUAD :neofox_glasses: NERD :neofox_glasses: HACK
Psst... you can implement your own arbitrary SIMD operations as seen in the  [Stream.Raw Example](Stream.Raw.md#examples).  
And since we like to live fast and foxy, try the new implicit extension types in C# 13 for that!
:::


## `Query<C>.Blit`
![a fennec splashes a paintbucket at an entire wall ](https://fennecs.tech/img/fennec-blit.png)

The most prominent SIMD operation is `Blit`, which writes the component value to all entities in the Query. `C` must be one of the Query's [Stream Types](index.md#stream-types). It requires no additional setup and is always safe.

```csharp
var myQuery = new Query<Velocity, Position>().Compile();

myQuery.Blit(default(Position));
myQuery.Blit(new Velocity(c, 0, 0));
```

`Blit` is incapable of adding new Components, and is also unable to modify Relation Targets. Use the [CRUD](CRUD.md) `Add...` functions for that, which internally uses Blit to write the new components.

::: warning :neofox_confused: INCONSISTENCY or (IN)CONVENIENCE?
Unlike the other SIMD operations, the `Blit` methods are declared in each `Query<>` class, where the others are in the `Query.SIMD` sub-interface. This may change in the future.
:::

::: details :neofox_magnify: BEHIND THE SCENES
`Blit` uses `Span<T>.Fill` to write the data. This is a fast and safe operation that is optimized by the .NET runtime and JIT compiler.

Fast Vectorization techniques are used to write Component Types that are [Blittable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/interop/blittable-and-non-blittable-types) (e.g. `struct` with only primitive fields), but practically all Reference types are also supported. (they blit rapidly, but not as fast as the Blittables).
:::

------
## Limitations
::: danger 🔏 ALIASING
SIMD Operations can lead to aliasing, where multiple process write the same memory location. 

This can happen with:
- nested query runs
- jobs

For simplicity's sake, if a world is not in `WorldMode.Immediate`, i.e. when any `WorldLock` is active, SIMD operations will throw before executing.

(this restriction will be lifted change soon!)

But because Jobs execute in non-deterministic order, you will not be able to Blit during a Job/from inside a job for the foreseeable time. But fret not - future versions of fennecs will have an aliasing system to allow for safe writes (especially to other queries/archetypes!)
:::

## Future SIMD Operations
::: details MORE COMING SOON - (click to preview)

### Index (writes a running, contiguous index to the component)

### MatrixMul

### MulMatrix

### VectorAdd, VectorDot, VectorCross, VectorScale, VectorOuter, VectorNormalize

### Count

### `integer` Arithmetic (AddI, SubtractI, MultiplyI, DivideI, ShiftLeftI, ShiftRightI, ModuloI)
### `long` Arithmetic (AddL, SubtractL, MultiplyL, DivideL, ShiftLeftL, ShiftRightL, ModuloL)
### `float` Arithmetic (AddF, SubtractF, MultiplyF, DivideF)
### `double` Arithmetic (AddD, SubtractD, MultiplyD, DivideD)
