fennecs.tech/cookbook/StarTrek.md, before:

---
title: 1. Star Trek (Entities)
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Famous Captains, gone - one by one!

::: info :neofox_floof_mug: MMMH, REAL CODE
This **RUNS**! *Playful premises aside*, this is a functioning showcase of **fenn**ecs principles.

Get comfy, grab a cup of ~~Java~~ ~~CoffeeScript~~ ~~Visual J#~~ whatever, and get your paws dirty playing around in the code! It's good fun!

All `.csproj` and `.cs` files are [over here on Github!](https://github.com/thygrrr/fennecs/blob/main/cookbook) 

:::

### Premise
Let's shed some light on a couple of the more famous Captains in the Star Trek Universe.

This example will teach a little about what happens to Entities when they Despawn!

We create a unique [Entity](../docs/Entity.md) for each; but `kirk` gets despawned and replaced by The Next Generation (`picard`). Then we create a bunch more and output to visualize how recycled Entities compare to each other and to give a feeling over how a [World](../docs/World.md) counts Generations up when Entities are destroyed.

### Implementation
<<< ../../cookbook/StarTrek.cs {cs:line-numbers}

### Outcome
The above code is the actual code, yet this output is copy-pasta and may not be re-generated each time the code is updated. *(mumble CI-CD mumble TODO mumble)*
```shell
dotnet run --project StarTrek.csproj
```
```txt 
      Kirk is E-00000001:00001 ... boldly going!
    Picard is E-00000001:00002 - the next Generation!
   Janeway is E-00000002:00001 - the best Captain ever!
      Kirk is E-00000001:00001 - and alive? False
    Archer is E-00000001:00003, ugh, don't we hate reboots...
  Georgiou is E-00000002:00002, now THAT's a Captain!
   Shatner ain't Stewart, even in death! True
```

Commit message:

Samples now ship with pre-generated output, which makes the doc pages easier to write. Also, the upload script now deletes everything except the video and img directiries. Fixes #5.

fennecs.tech/cookbook/StarTrek.md, after:

---
title: 1. Star Trek (Entities)
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Famous Captains - none alike!

::: info :neofox_floof_mug: MMMH, REAL CODE
This **RUNS**! *Playful premises aside*, this is a functioning showcase of **fenn**ecs principles.

Get comfy, grab a cup of ~~Java~~ ~~CoffeeScript~~ ~~Visual J#~~ whatever, and get your paws dirty playing around in the code! It's good fun!

All `.csproj` and `.cs` files are [over here on Github!](https://github.com/thygrrr/fennecs/blob/main/cookbook) 

:::

### Premise
Let's reminisce some famous Captains of old and new.

This example will explore what Entities "look" like in your logs, and what happens when they Despawn, and how they get recycled.

We spawn a unique [Entity](../docs/Entity.md) for each captain; but `kirk` gets despawned and replaced by The Next Generation (`picard`). Then we create a bunch more and output to visualize how recycled Entities compare to each other and to give a feeling over how a [World](../docs/World.md) counts Generations up when Entities are destroyed.

### Recipe
::: code-group
<<< ../../cookbook/StarTrek.cs {cs:line-numbers} [Implementation]
<<< ../../cookbook/StarTrek.output.txt{txt} [Output]
:::
