fennecs.tech/cookbook/Tsubasa.md, before:

---
title: 2. Tsubasa (Updating)
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Nankatsu High School Team's first Practice

::: info :neofox_floof_mug: MMMH, REAL CODE
This **RUNS**! *Playful premises aside*, this is a functioning showcase of **fenn**ecs principles.

Get comfy, grab a cup of ~~Java~~ ~~CoffeeScript~~ ~~Visual J#~~ whatever, and get your paws dirty playing around in the code! It's good fun!

All `.csproj` and `.cs` files are [over here on Github!](https://github.com/thygrrr/fennecs/blob/main/cookbook) 

:::

### Premise
Japan's least coordinated soccer team tries to score a goal. They're just kids, all running after the ball at once. Only one of them is kind of a good shot, some kid named "Tsubasa"...

We create a team of 11 Entities with `Player`, `Name`, `Talent`, and `Position` [Components](../docs/Component.md), and a ball entity with `Ball` and `Position` Components.

In our "game" loop, we get the current position of our ball Entity, and let each player Entity run after it. If they get close enough, they kick the ball to a new position. As soon as the only player with a truthy `Talent` Component scores, the match ends with a golden goal.

### Implementation
<<< ../../cookbook/Tsubasa.cs {cs:line-numbers}

### Outcome
The above code is the actual code, yet this output is copy-pasta and may not be re-generated each time the code is updated. *(mumble CI-CD mumble TODO mumble)*
```shell
dotnet run --project Tsubasa.csproj
```
```txt 
          Kojiro runs towards the ball! ..... d = 1,79m
           Genzo runs towards the ball! ..... d = 2,73m
            Taro runs towards the ball! ..... d = 3,66m
          Hikaru runs towards the ball! ..... d = 1,62m
             Jun runs towards the ball! ..... d = 3,22m
          Shingo runs towards the ball! ..... d = 4,87m
             Ryo runs towards the ball! ..... d = 2,49m
         Takeshi runs towards the ball! ..... d = 1,77m
           Masao runs towards the ball! ..... d = 1,79m
           Kazuo runs towards the ball! ..... d = 2,33m
>>>>> Tsubasa kicks the ball!
***** TSUBASA SCORES!!!
```

Commit message:

Tsubasa example shows progression over time

fennecs.tech/cookbook/Tsubasa.md, after:

---
title: 2. Tsubasa (Updating)
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Nankatsu High School Team's first Practice

::: info :neofox_floof_mug: MMMH, REAL CODE
This **RUNS**! *Playful premises aside*, this is a functioning showcase of **fenn**ecs principles.

Get comfy, grab a cup of ~~Java~~ ~~CoffeeScript~~ ~~Visual J#~~ whatever, and get your paws dirty playing around in the code! It's good fun!

All `.csproj` and `.cs` files are [over here on Github!](https://github.com/thygrrr/fennecs/blob/main/cookbook) 

:::

### Premise
Japan's least coordinated soccer team tries to score a goal. They're just kids, all running after the ball at once. Only one of them is kind of a good shot, some kid named "Tsubasa"...

We create a team of 11 Entities with `Player`, `Name`, `Talent`, and `Position` [Components](../docs/Component.md), and a ball entity with `Ball` and `Position` Components.

In our "game" loop, we get the current position of our ball Entity, and let each player Entity run after it. If they get close enough, they kick the ball to a new position. As soon as the only player with a truthy `Talent` Component scores, the match ends with a golden goal.

### Implementation
<<< ../../cookbook/Tsubasa.cs {cs:line-numbers}

### Outcome
The above code is the actual code, yet this output is copy-pasta and may not be re-generated each time the code is updated. *(mumble CI-CD mumble TODO mumble)*
```shell
dotnet run --project Tsubasa.csproj
```
<video controls autoplay muted loop>
<source src="https://fennecs.tech/video/fennecs-tsubasa-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
